




“I don’t think I’ve ever wanted inner peace,” I typed to Eloise on Facebook Chat. “Inner warfare just seems so much better.”
Waiting for her response, I drank green tea from a paper cup. I didn’t feel good nor bad, but neither, like a tree. It was June something, twenty-ten-something, and I was sitting alone at a round table near a window inside one of Montreal’s many Starbucks. It was bright and sunny outside. The air-conditioned Starbucks, in comparison, seemed weatherless, like a kind of non-season. Near me, a teenager of Asian descent was playing a space combat video game about explosions being beautiful, and on the wall in front of me was a banal painting of a red fish. “Who painted this?” I thought, abstractly focusing on the eye and the mouth. “Salvador Dali,” I thought. “Just kidding,” I thought.
The future, as usual, seemed dark. I was a “freelance web designer,” which sounded okay, but essentially meant “70% unemployed.” I was also a “new media artist” making conceptual videos that I shared online or presented at exhibits, which was only vaguely getting me anywhere. I had spent the past few months feeling deeply uninspired, unable to come up with anything, not even a simple tweet, just passively staring at my computer screen like it was some sort of hypnotic lawn ornament.
Trying to create art videos was now a source of anxiety, as opposed to an outlet for it. 
Because of this, procrastinating my own work by aimlessly browsing the internet felt more calming than usual, like a meditation retreat. I wasn’t sure where all my usual creative thoughts had gone, if they had escaped my skull like feral animals into the night and were now somewhere else in the world, moving around in packs, rampaging suburban yards maybe, or if I had just exhausted every possible thought I could have as this person, in this environment.
“Creative dry spell,” I thought.
“Same,” typed Eloise on Facebook Chat after a long absence. “Sorry I’ve been unresponsive. I just got absorbed in replying to this email.”
“It’s okay,” I typed. “How’s Baltimore?” 

My dream job was not having a job.


Strategically late by about an hour, I met up with Grace and her friends at a “modern” Mexican-themed restaurant. It was a week later and Ashlyn’s birthday, who was turning 24. She was wearing a white knee-length dress decorated with random splashes of colors, as if fireworks had exploded on it. Next to Ashlyn was her boyfriend, Roberto. I felt relieved that Roberto was present, as he usually functioned as my default “guy friend” within Grace’s friends group. “Mexican boyfriend,” I thought. “Mexican restaurant,” I thought. I couldn’t tell if these two items were connected or not.
I removed my backpack and jacket, which was wet from the rain and glistening a little. I wanted to sit at the end of the table, next to Grace and her friend Andrea, but before I could locate a chair, Ashlyn’s mom, Diane, who was visiting from Newfoundland, and who I had never met, got up and gestured to indicate that she wanted a hug, probably because I was one of Ashlyn’s friends. “It’s my mom,” said Ashlyn, laughing. Hugging Diane, I became overly aware that I hadn’t really been around people in almost three days, hadn’t even felt once, in that period of time, the need to socialize with other human beings. 
I hugged Ashlyn’s mom as a way of forcing myself to get into a social mood and Diane said, “Oh, he’s a hugger” and I replied, “I am a hugger.” Then Diane returned to her seat and we weren’t talking anymore and didn’t interact again for the rest of the evening.
I stole a chair from another table, sat next to Grace and began communicating with her in short sentences, something that felt less like a conversation and more like exchanging Morse code through telegraphs. Simply being in a stable, healthy relationship with Grace felt like a major life achievement for me, something I should win a Nobel Prize for maybe. Sitting at the other end of the table, Grace’s friend, Val, smiled at me and waved a little and I waved back. Grace’s friends group was composed of people she had grown up with and who had moved to Montreal around the same time as her. The group had been carefully assembled and optimized over a number of years, was sometimes pruned like a bonsai tree to maintain the desired shape. This was very different from my approach to friendship, as my friends rarely came together as a single group. They all had, at one point or another, individually landed into my life, like lost Frisbees, and would probably exit it at another, to be replaced by new individual, single usage friends.
One major difference between Grace and me was that I didn’t expect my friendships to be permanent.
Grace asked me if I was planning on ordering anything and I replied that I wasn't sure I wanted to spend money. She introduced me to a friend of Roberto, Jorge, who was visiting Canada for the first time. Jorge seemed amused by Montreal, observing people around the table like he was watching a theatre play about the social customs of young adults in Canada. I glanced at Andrea, who was staring at her phone and touching the screen with her finger, as if tickling it. I needed a new artist photo for my website and wanted to ask Andrea, a photographer whose work had appeared in blogs and magazines, for help, but couldn’t get myself to. I still felt shy and asocial and ostrich-like, mostly unable to process human interactions. I imagined myself, a grown man, being banished from the adults’ table due to inadequate social skills, ordered to go sit at the children’s table instead.
I felt grateful that there was no children’s table in the restaurant.
Overhearing Ashlyn’s laughter, I thought about how she was turning 24. I visualized myself at age 24, a period of my life that now felt both distant and near, like an illusion of false perspective. I placed my head on Grace’s arm and said, “Hug my head” in a soft voice and she did, covering it with her other arm and squeezing gently. Grace said, “Why your head?” and I replied, “It’s where all the good things happen” without thinking and then we both laughed a little. A waitress carrying several items approached the table. Grace and Andrea’s order was a shared plate of tacos stuffed with black beans. Before the waitress disappeared again, Andrea ordered a daiquiri. Grace drank water from her glass, emptying it and then tactically refilling it using a bottle of Bacardi hidden in her handbag.
“You can have some if you want,” said Grace.
	“Thank you,” I said. “Sneaking in drinks is so much more fun than buying them.” 
“I know,” said Grace, prolonging the last syllable.
“We’re totally outpartying that other table,” I said, pointing at a group of seven seated at a table across the room from ours. From my point of view, they seemed less like human beings, and more like well-operated puppets.
“When we got here, I thought they were us,” said Grace. “I thought the open wall was our reflection in a mirror for some reason. They kind of look like us. It didn’t seem like we were having fun.”
“They look really bored,” said Andrea. “Maybe it’s no one's birthday for them. Maybe it’s just a Wednesday.”
“They look like they’re from an alternate universe where we all have jobs,” I said, taking a sip from Grace’s glass.
“I have a job,” said Andrea. 
“Real jobs,” said Grace, laughing a little.
The waitress returned with Andrea’s daiquiri, prompting Grace to hide her drink. Andrea’s beverage was red-colored and looked planet-like in texture and composition. I stared at the drink absent-mindedly and thought, “Morgan Freeman” and then, “Morgan Freeman narrating a space documentary about this daiquiri.” Using her phone, Andrea filmed her drink for a few seconds, zooming in and out overzealously, then sent the recording to someone through Snapchat. 
I continued to drink Bacardi with Grace, began to feel, several sips later, more or less normalized, the alcohol calcifying a false sense of confidence, making me officially cede command of my body to my social persona. I mentioned the website photo to Andrea, who automatically agreed to help, even offering to do it for free. We began discussing when to meet, but were interrupted by the waitress surprising Ashlyn with a chocolate lava cake. Many people used their phones to photograph Ashlyn and her birthday cake.
“I wish the camera on my phone wasn’t broken,” said Grace. “I miss Instagram.” 
“I don’t know,” I said. “I think we’re okay. I feel like this moment is being overdocumented right now.”
“I know I’ll be able to look at everyone’s photos later, it’s just,” said Grace, “it’s not the same. ”
About half-an-hour later, we exited the Mexican restaurant and walked in unplanned groups of three or four to Sharx, a bar located a few streets down that contained a bowling alley. Unbothered by the rain, I sprinted ahead to join the front group of Ashlyn, Roberto and Derek. 
“Thank you for the shirt,” I said to Derek, who was Ashlyn’s roommate. I didn’t know him very well, but had recently, through Grace, inherited an expensive-looking shirt from him. “I actually really like it.”
“Oh, my pleasure,” said Derek. “I was just trying to get rid of it. I own way too many blue shirts.”
“I have been broke for a while now,” I said, “so this is really good for me.”
“What’s going on with you?” said Derek. “Grace was saying that you’re thinking about moving to Toronto, but you weren’t sure.”
	“We’ve talked about it,” I said. “I really like Montreal, but it’s starting to feel like I’ve done everything that I needed to do here. My friend Eloise lives in Toronto and I’ve already been there a few times. It seems like there would be new opportunities for me if I lived there.”
“I could see why that would make sense for you,” said Derek. “It’s too bad if you’re moving, though. I mean, I don’t know you very well, but Grace really seems to like you.”
“It’s a lot to think about,” I said.
Grace and I had originally met through my friend Jane, who knew her friend Ashlyn. We had been dating since January. Grace was 27, two years my junior, and worked part-time as a waitress in a small Anglophone pub, where she only had to know a few basic sentences in French. She was more extroverted than me, seemed to feel energized around people, enjoyed talking and socializing and living her life unironically. In addition to her job, she was also completing individual courses like biology and chemistry, pre-requisites that would eventually allow her to apply to a Nutrition program at McGill University in Montreal, her first choice, or Ryerson in Toronto, her fallback plan. Earlier in life, she had studied music and later psychology, each time dropping out before graduating. Her complicated journey towards something resembling a career meant that we were currently at similar points in our lives, and therefore romantically compatible. 
Unlike most people around her, Grace wasn’t an artist. She sometimes described herself as “boring,” especially when comparing herself to her close friends, whose social media presences were all more catchy and exciting and well-liked than hers. She could play the piano very well but rarely did, the massive keyboard in her room mostly accumulating dust. What I liked about her was simply that she was a good person, stable, kind, reliable and caring. We both tended to say, “I am sorry” a lot, were always trying to out-apologize one another, as if our relationship was a kind of BDSM in which the safe word was “Sorry.”
Grace was also, I felt, someone whose trust and desire to trust had been abused in the past, the kind of person who could only figure out what a “healthy relationship” was by deducing from what it wasn't, like trying to determine who the culprit was in a game of Clue. Based on stories she had told me, I sometimes visualized her ex-boyfriends as a kind of museum display of psychopaths. One was a graffiti artist who, one night, had gotten too drunk and insulted her friends, then later stolen her bike. A few months before, Grace and I had run into him at a house party, resulting in an unpleasant conversation that had quickly escalated into a shouting argument. “But what’s the value of someone’s life compared to a cheap bike?” her psychopath ex-boyfriend had said in defense of his actions.
Judging from her agitated response, it seemed clear that, to Grace, the value of this specific person’s life was worth much less than the cheap bike.
Entering Sharx, I spotted an ATM machine and decided to take out money. I wasn’t sure there would be sufficient funds in my bank account for me to withdraw 20$ plus processing fees, but I was able to complete the transaction without any objections from the machine. 
Retrieving money from the dispenser, I felt like I had just won some sort of private lottery.
Downstairs, I ordered a beer, received Alexander Keith’s in a tall glass, paid for the overpriced drink without leaving a tip. Rejoining Grace and her friends near the shoe station inside the bowling alley, I asked Roberto if he was good at bowling and he answered, “I don’t remember,” which made me laugh, though he hadn’t intended the remark as a joke. I told Grace that I had “zero interest” in bowling and she replied, “Are you sure, I can lend you money for a game” and I said, “No, it’s okay” in a calm tone.
Several minutes later, I sat on a teal couch near our group’s assigned lane and observed Jorge, who seemed intrigued by the large television monitor above the shoe station. The television screen was displaying the third period of a Stanley Cup hockey game in the middle of June. The only other person in the bowling alley looking at the monitor was a random man in a trench coat who was clapping to encourage the athletes on television, though the athletes on television seemed unaffected.
Grace sat next to me and we shared my drink while holding hands. Later, after finishing the beer, I brought the empty glass with me to the men’s room, where I locked myself in the only unoccupied stall. I retrieved a tall can of Sleeman hidden in my backpack, snapped it open and calmly transferred the can’s content into my empty glass. I began thinking about how this situation, sneaking beers into public places to save money, was just normal behavior for me, how this way of living, having little income and keeping my responsibilities and the overall cost of my existence to a minimum, was what I had decided was the optimal arrangement of my life in Montreal, a kind of Feng Shui gone horribly wrong. 
“My comfort zone would be someone else’s depressing wasteland of unemployment,” I thought.
Coming back, I saw that Grace was having difficulty bowling, mainly because the ball was too gigantic for her. I glanced at the scoreboard, noticed that Roberto, despite having gutter-balled several throws, was now in the lead. Roberto looked surprised by this, but not unproud, as if impressed by his skill at this seemingly random, strategy-less game. The television monitor above the shoe station was now presenting professional wrestling, which Derek was watching, or trying to watch. On the television monitor, a wrestler with a beard was holding a microphone and arguing with a wrestler dressed in a suit and a tie.
“I wish this had subtitles,” said Derek. “I love wrestling. I just never watch it.” 
“Why are they so angry?” I said. “They’re just talking right now. Even talking is making them angry.”
“Everything makes them angry,” said Derek. “That’s the point of wrestling. So they always have a reason to fight. You couldn’t be a wrestler otherwise.”
“So there’s no wrestler with good conflict-resolution skills?” I said.
“That would be a terrible wrestler,” said Derek. “Or wait, no. People would want to see him get his ass kicked. They would make him World Champion.”
After the game, whose winner was apparently no one, as most players seemed disinterested in the final tally and eager to move on, I replied to a text message from Jane while Grace, Andrea and Ashlyn discussed what to do next. Andrea mentioned that she wanted to go to a loft party at which the band Blue Hawaii was either playing or DJing, she wasn’t sure, but then was successfully outlobbied by Ashlyn, who convinced everyone to relocate to a bar in the gay village.
Several minutes later, we all stood in the entrance at Sharx, mentally preparing to face the rain again. Half the group agreed to share a cab while the other decided to travel by subway.
“Are you coming with us?” said Grace.
“I don’t have a subway thing,” I said. 
“How did you get downtown?” said Grace.
“I walked,” I said.
“You walked?” said Grace, with an inflexion that sounded like an accusation.
“It took me, like, fifty minutes,” I said. “I hadn’t gone out all day. It was fine. I think I’d rather walk to the village as well.”
“I can lend you money to get the night pass,” said Grace. ‘Then later we can take the bus to get back to my house.”
“It’s okay, I have money with me,” I said. “I just don’t want to spend it. I don’t mind walking. It would take me twenty minutes to get there. I’ll walk.” 
“But it’s pouring outside,” said Grace.
“It’s not pouring,” I said. “It’s just raining.” 
“Let me pay for you,” said Grace.
“No, it’s fine,” I said. “Never mind, I’ll buy the night thing.” 
“Are you sure?” said Grace.
“Yeah, it’s okay,” I said. “Forget what I said. I’ll just buy the night thing.”
“Okay,” said Grace.
I walked with Andrea, Val and Grace to the Guy-Concordia metro station in unintentional silence, the weather thwarting our attempts at conversation. Inside the station, I stopped at an automated vending machine while the rest of the group crossed the turnstiles. “Hold on, Daniel needs to get a night pass,” said Grace, forcing the others to wait. Swiping the pass at the gate, I was denied access and shown the error message “Plage horaire interdite.”
“What’s wrong?” said Grace.
	“It’s telling me that I can’t get in,” I said. “Hold on.”
I sprinted to the booth attendant, who was reading a magazine.
“Excuse me,” I said in a half-assed French that lacked practice. “I just bought this and it’s telling me that I can’t use it for this time slot.”
“It’s after midnight,” said the attendant in French. “You need to activate the night pass before midnight. It doesn’t work otherwise. It’ll work tomorrow night.”
“But I just bought it,” I said. 
“Well, I am sorry,” said the attendant.
On the other side of the turnstiles, a distressed-looking Grace began shouting things in English like, “He just bought it, I saw him,” trying to help. After arguing with me a little more, the attendant offered to trade me a regular, single usage ticket in exchange for the night pass and a small additional fee. I thought, “This is bullshit” and felt within me an unknown amount of anger sparked by poorly timed personal pride. I looked at Grace and mouthed, “I’ll just walk” and she said, “Wait” and moved in my direction. She wanted to discuss this with me further, but I repeated, “I’ll just walk” in a firmer tone and added, “I’ll be there in twenty minutes.”
I climbed the stairs and exited the station. I began walking East, tried to convince myself that leaving abruptly was the moral thing to do in this situation. “I am broke,” I thought. “I really can’t waste money right now. Also, I like walking. What’s the difference?”
Around me, fine translucent needles were coming down from the sky in a screensaver-like manner, as if a detailed pattern obeying its algorithm. I glanced ahead through the rain, saw moon-drenched buildings in the distance. The city of Montreal looked withdrawn and self-conscious, as if it was thinking, “I keep getting bigger and bigger, but I still feel like I have no idea what I am doing.”
I walked on Sainte-Catherine and eventually reached the gay village. I located the bar, tried going in, but was stopped by a doorman. There was a cover charge, I was told. Feeling annoyed, I looked past the man to register the bar’s vibe, which didn’t seem particularly promising. I thought about leaving, going home. I retrieved my phone and saw that Grace had messaged me a few minutes earlier to warn me of the charge at the door. I composed a text message explaining that I didn’t want to pay the mandatory fee, didn’t feel like being social anymore, would be leaving. Then I thought, “Wait, I am being an asshole, I suck for wanting to go” and deleted the original message. I composed a second text asking Grace to come see me at the door.
About a minute later, I saw her getting up and walking towards the entrance. I wanted to tell her that I wasn't sure I wanted to stay, but looking at her directly, I realized that she was upset.
“Are you okay?” I said.
“I didn’t want to make you waste money,” said Grace, becoming emotional a little mid-sentence. “I am sorry I made you buy the night thing.”
“Hey, it’s okay,” I said in a warm tone of voice. “I am not mad. I know I’ve been saying that I need to be careful with money, but money is stupid. We shouldn’t argue about money. I am sorry I stormed out earlier. That was probably just misplaced ego on my end. It’s my fault. I am dumb.”
I placed her head against my chest and hugged her. I was surprised that she was crying a little, didn’t think she would be over something as simple as this. Though we had been dating for five months, we hadn’t, in that period of time, fought, not even once. On a few occasions, we had even joked about what the topic of our “first fight” would be, if it would sound something like, “Listen, I am sorry that I am upset with you, but you can’t expect me not to react this way after what you did, though I apologize if me being upset makes you upset, that wasn't my intention, I just want what’s best for you.” In reality, I suspected that our first real fight was going to be about Toronto. I knew that if I decided to move there, I would probably become just one more disappointing man in her life, and that if she was upset, it wasn’t because of money at all, but because she liked me and was afraid of losing me, didn’t want to give me any reason to distance myself from her.
We kissed. I began to think that what I wanted was no longer to go home, but for her to feel good again. I grabbed her hand and paid cover to get into a bar I didn’t want to be in, with money I wasn’t sure I had. We sat at a table with her friends and I began chatting with Roberto, then with Derek and Val. My mood suddenly seemed radically different, as if it had been imported from another brain, one created from scratch in an underground lab that had to ability to maintain at all times perfect levels of Dopamine and Serotonin.
I came up with little jokes. 
I told a story. 
I made Grace laugh.


I woke up at Grace’s apartment, in Grace’s bed and with Grace’s cat, but without Grace. In my sleep, I had accidentally drooled on one of her pillows, leaving a signature that looked like a territory marker, some sort of unmotivated graffiti that didn’t involve getting out of bed. I searched her nightstand for my glasses, but could only find rolling papers and a Ziploc bag that contained a small amount of weed. Locating my pants on the floor, I checked my phone for time and saw that it was 1h30 pm, meaning Grace had already left for work. Grace’s cat, an overweight, comical-looking three-year-old male named Tom-Tom, was monitoring my actions. His eyes were wide open and he looked overly alert, like an undercover cop.
	“Grown man arrested by cat for trespassing and vandalism,” I thought.
I petted Tom-Tom a little. His fur had a peculiar texture, as he wasn’t very good at cleaning himself, too large to reach certain areas. Rejecting my attempt at affection, Tom-Tom jumped from the bed and ran towards the kitchen in an unintentionally funny, animated GIF-like manner. I liked Tom-Tom, liked how he existed outside of language, how he didn’t have words like “comical-looking” to describe his own condition, and therefore was unaffected by them.
	An hour later, at Résonance, a café on Parc and Fairmount, I replied to an email from Jane, who wanted to present some of my videos as part of an “art night” she was organizing. We wouldn’t make money because she had to pay for the space, but it was “good exposure,” the email said. I logged into my online bank account, transferred the last 900$ in my savings account to my regular account, then tried working on things. Once again, I felt blocked, couldn’t seem to produce anything. “How do I unclog my brain so that I can have new ideas?” I thought. I wasn’t sure what the spiritual equivalent of a toilet plunger was supposed to be.
For a while, I just sat there in my own irrelevance, killing a browser tab only to generate two or three new ones, like cutting the head of a hydra.
Though Résonance was usually quiet during the day, minus maybe creepy jazz playing on the sound system, that afternoon, a music teacher had reserved the concert area in the back. One by one, tiny children of age 7 to 9 were summoned on stage to play a few notes on an oversized piano. At the end of each song, the children’s parents clapped politely in a forced and mechanical manner, like a kind of Pavlovian conditioning in which silence had to automatically trigger applause. Distracted by the performance, I thought about how, for the children, this was actually a pretty accurate simulation of what life as an artist would be like, performing in front of a small audience and then receiving polite clapping as a response partly because you weren’t horrible, and partly because you were done.
“I am in a library stealing their Wi-Fi,” typed Eloise on Facebook chat. “I just got an overly aggressive email from someone I went to school with.”
“Aggressive about what?” I typed.
“She said she doesn’t like my online magazine and ‘self-promotion’ and that she didn’t want to ‘boost my ego’ anymore, because I’ve been getting so much love from people,” typed Eloise. “I said, ‘I spend 95% of my time alone.’”
“That sucks,” I typed.
“She also said that I hate men,” typed Eloise. “I tried to tell her that I don’t hate men, it’s just easier to assume that they’re evil by default. They can still earn my trust over time. She didn’t seem to get it.”
“I don’t know if you should take this too personally,” I typed. “It sounds like she hates your Facebook, not you.”
“Yeah,” typed Eloise. “I mean, I get it. I hate my Facebook too.”
“How long are you staying in Baltimore again?” I typed.
“Another month,” typed Eloise. “That was always the plan, get away from Toronto and stay here for two months. I like Baltimore, but it’s not my life. It feels like I’ve borrowed this life from Julie. It’s a way better life, arguably. I am Julie. Sometimes I think about moving back to Toronto and it’s like, ‘Why would I do that?’ But then I have to exist somewhere.”
“How do I move to Toronto?” I typed. “Part of me wants to, but another part of me is still sabotaging that first part’s efforts. Shit-talking it a little.”
“You should just move without thinking about it,” typed Eloise. “Buy a one-way Megabus ticket, bring the strict minimum with you and abandon the rest of your stuff in Montreal, for future civilizations to study. That’s what I did when I left for Baltimore.” 
“I won’t be able to move until August,” I typed. “I could have tried for July first, but then I waited too long.”
	“Are you sure this is what you want?” typed Eloise. “Toronto, I mean.”
“I think so,” I typed. “Every four years or so, I always end up doing something drastic to fuck up my life. It’s like the Olympics of poor life planning. I would be right on schedule.”
“Have you told Grace?” she typed.
“We talked about it once, but never as something that’s definitely happening,” I typed. “She would be disappointed if I moved. We’ve only been dating since January, but I feel like it’s bigger than that for her. I think her goal in life is to prove to her parents that she’s not failing at life, so she wants to have a decent career and maybe get married and have babies and stuff. She’s already thinking about these things.”
 “Wow, babies,” typed Eloise. “That seems like a huge amount of pressure.”
	“I like Grace a lot, and we get along really well, but I have no idea how to explain to her that I hate every single human baby on a personal level,” I typed.
“Lord, I don’t want babies either,” typed Eloise. “Life is so complicated already, why would you add children on top of that? It’s like you’re deliberately trying to go insane.”
“Does it have to be a baby?” I typed. “Why can’t we just have another adult?”


I often felt like some of my best friends were websites.



Whereas before not all my ideas were great, but at least I had them.


One of the Ten Commandments should have been, “Avoid taking yourself seriously.”



After sex, I rested my head on Grace’s chest, synchronizing my breathing with hers. It was two am and several days later. We had recently stopped using condoms, as this made sex more pleasurable for us. Instead, Grace tracked her period using a period App on her phone and I pulled out at the last minute to ejaculate on her stomach. We both knew this system wasn’t ideal, but were apparently using it anyway. 
	I asked Grace what her plans for the weekend were and she mentioned something at La Brique.
	“We’ve been there so much lately,” I said. “I feel like I am going to blow my head off if we go. I don’t know if I want to make a scene.”
	“I want to go, but you don’t have to come with me,” said Grace. “You can flake.”
“It just seems like we’ve been partying on autopilot lately,” I said. “When we go out, it’s always the same four-five venues and the same rotating cast of people and the same conversations. It’s like being in a sitcom that has to revert back to its default situation before the episode is over. I am just standing there thinking, ‘I am trapped.’ It’s not a good feeling.”
“Well, there’s no point in partying if you’re not having fun,” said Grace.
“It’s more complicated than that,” I said. “It’s almost like I am tired of having fun.”
“What do you mean?” said Grace.
“Never mind,” I said. “I don’t know what I mean. I remember, when I was seeing Evil Cayla, partying with her was always unpredictable. She had this knack for getting into insane situations all the time.”
 “You always call her ‘Evil Cayla,’” said Grace. “If we ever break up, are you going to refer to me as ‘Evil Grace’?”
“No, not at all,” I said. “If anything, you would be, like, ‘Emotionally-repairing Grace.’”
“Emotionally-repairing Daniel,” said Grace, smiling. “Do you have photos of Evil Cayla?”
“I could show you her Facebook if you want,” I said.
“Please,” said Grace with enthusiasm. Except for Evil Cayla, who I had shit-talked on a few occasions, Grace didn’t know a lot about my dating history. My romantic life, prior to her, had felt more or less like a dying plant, something that received water and sunlight once in a while, but was never really flourishing.  For that reason, it was hard for me to allow myself to love because I had difficulty believing it would last. Another major difference between Grace and me was that I didn’t think having a stable romantic partner was going to solve any of my problems. 
While I reached for her laptop, which was on the floor, Grace retrieved weed, rolling papers and a book from her nightstand. “Oh, good,” I said, locating Cayla’s profile on Facebook. “I wasn’t even sure we were still friends. We probably have the record for most amount of times that we deleted and then re-added one another on Facebook.”
“How many ex-girlfriends do you still have on Facebook?” said Grace.
 “Not that many,” I said. “I’ve been single a lot, so I am definitely not, like, the king of relationships.”
“God, me neither,” said Grace while rolling a joint, using the book as a base. I glanced at her hands and couldn't help feeling like the author photo of Pulitzer Prize-winning author Jennifer Egan was observing her manipulate weed.
“Here, this is me and Cayla together,” I said, pointing at the screen. “I was pretty drunk the night this was taken. I remember, I tried to high-five a wall.”
“She doesn’t look that evil,” said Grace. “The way you talk about her, I kept imagining the rich lady from the 101 Dalmatians.”
“She’s too evil to look evil,” I said.
“She’s pretty,” said Grace.
“Show me one of yours,” I said.
	“One of my ex-boyfriends?” said Grace, emphasizing the word “My.” “Oh God. Well, you met Alex the bike thief, we don’t need to see him again. Maybe I could show you my Norwegian ex-boyfriend.”
	“You have a Norwegian ex-boyfriend?” I said.
“From high school,” said Grace. “He was on exchange. We were never officially boyfriend and girlfriend, but out of all the guys I’ve been involved with, he’s the only one my mom has ever liked. She still talks about him. ‘How’s Martin these days?’ I have no idea, mom. It’s been more than ten years.”
I ceded control of the MacBook to Grace. About a minute later, a photograph appeared on screen. In the picture, a man with curly blond hair, a beard and a lime green t-shirt was holding a baby while sitting in front of a tent in a forest. Grace explained that her Norwegian ex-boyfriend had changed a lot since high school, didn’t have the beard or the baby or the lime green t-shirt back then. We cycled through her ex-boyfriend’s profile pictures, making little comments and laughing while doing so.
“Do you want to see my first serious girlfriend?” I said. “It’s this French Canadian girl, we dated when I was 17 or 18. I haven’t lurked her in a while, so I don’t know what to expect.”
Holding the MacBook again, I tracked down my French Canadian ex-girlfriend’s Facebook account. In her most recent profile picture, she had blonde hair and was wearing what appeared to be a cowboy hat.
“I have no idea what’s going on in this photo,” I said. “She’s changed so much. This is honestly mind-blowing.”
“That’s what makes it fun,” said Grace, “that she’s changed.”
“It’s been so long,” I said. “I feel like we’re new people now. We could probably date again without realizing that we’ve dated before.”
“That would be funny,” said Grace. “It sounds like the plot for a movie.”
“By Woody Allen,” I said.
“Definitely,” said Grace.
“Show me another,” I said.
	“Okay,” said Grace. “I can show you Kevin, but please be nice. You’ll see why.”
	I wasn’t sure what Grace was afraid of, but I promised I wouldn’t be mean. About a minute later, she pointed at the screen and said, “Here, this is us.”
“He seems like a nice sports bro,” I said. “But you look so different in this.”
In the photo, Grace was about twenty or thirty pounds heavier. Her younger face looked like an unoptimized version of her current face.
“That’s why I didn’t want to show you,” said Grace. “I untagged myself from this photo. When I moved to Montreal, I started walking more and my eating habits changed and Mom wasn’t there to make me feel bad about myself anymore, so I dropped a bunch of weight without realizing. When I returned home, everyone kept telling me how great I looked, and I was like, ‘What the hell are you guys talking about?’”
“Does your mom still make you feel bad?” I said.
“It’s better now,” said Grace. “We just couldn’t live together. She means well, but she can be very OCD about certain things. She would point out blemishes on my face, make me feel bad about my weight or yell at me all the time to keep my room clean. She would tell me things like, ‘No man is ever going to love you if you continue being this messy.’ She thought she was doing me a favour, but when you hear the same thing over and over again, you start to believe it. No man is ever going to love me.”
“Do you remember the first night I slept at your place?” I said. “You were being self-conscious about your room and I was like, ‘Cool, piles of clothes on the floor.’”
“The self-conscious thing, that’s definitely because of my mom,” said Grace. “I am pretty sure she has an undiagnosed disorder. Realistically, I might have an undiagnosed something too, like ADD. That would explain all my failures in school. When I was a kid, my teachers were always telling my parents the same thing. ‘Grace is a smart student, but she’s good at talking and she’s always handing in her assignments at the last minute.’”
“That’s true,” I said.
“What’s true?” said Grace.
“You are good at talking,” I said.



On Instagram, I saw that Eloise had posted a photo of herself wearing a t-shirt that said, “I bathe in male tears.”



So much of my art career was still imaginary.



I woke up in the middle of the night and noticed that Grace was saying, “I am sorry” in her sleep.



Looking out the front window, I could see a couple across the street micromanaging a baby. The evening sun, currently peaking, had transformed into a gorgeous, unsustainable orange. It was the last day of June and I was standing in an art gallery on a particularly warm night, feeling more curious about the baby than about the art around me. I sometimes felt as if I had lost all concept of a “family.” As a result, the life of a parent often seemed as mysterious and inaccessible to me as the life of a nocturnal animal. I was at an age where I probably should have social pressure to “settle down,” except I didn’t. I wasn’t talking to my parents anymore, wasn’t close to my family, and none of my friends were married or had children. All I had, instead, was the knowledge that partying had begun to feel like North Korea, a kind of elaborate deception that tried to make you believe that you were ageless. I was starting to feel like I wanted to take my life more seriously, make decisions that weren’t selfish, weren’t terrible, but also weren’t compromises.
	“A performance,” I thought, observing the parents caring for the baby. I felt like I was watching an art performance, a piece titled Avoiding Self-Centeredness in a Post-Internet World Through Love, Altruism and Devotion. “So much free wine here,” said Jane, suddenly popping into my field of view like a foreign object from another dimension. “It’s like I am crashing a wedding.” She laughed. She was wearing a black top and a transparent blouse adorned with blue petals, had arranged her hair in two small buns, making her look, I felt, futuristic, like a calming apparition from a non-dystopian, seemingly trustworthy tomorrow. We were attending the launch of the new issue of an online art magazine, which had organized a projection of animated GIFs curated by a new media artist who was popular on the internet. The GIFs, supposedly, all dealt with how gender, sexuality and class were presented online.
“I have to say, I am little bummed that neither of us were solicited for this,” Jane said.
“I know,” I said, “but we can’t be solicited for everything. There are so many people making things out there. Everyone has a Tumblr.”
	“That’s too bad,” said Jane.
“It’s too easy to create stuff now,” I said. “Maybe we would be more special if we did nothing, like if we had full-time jobs and didn’t bother with social media and came home at night and felt good about ourselves. Everyone else would still be an artist, so we would stand out.”
	“I could see that,” said Jane. “These guys are killing it! They don’t give a shit about their followers! It’s an ironic comment on America in the post-Facebook era!”
“No one ever talks about the damage that art does to your self-perception,” I said. “It’s like, if you put together a show and get even just a tiny bit of praise from somewhere, you start thinking things like, ‘I can’t work at Foot Locker, I am an Important Artist who got a tiny bit of praise from some place, what would my fans think?’ From that point on, you’re always an Important Artist to yourself. You always deserve better.”
 “I agree with you that there’s too much content out there now,” said Jane. “We’re all suffocating. Lately I’ve been feeling like I am tapped into culture 24/7. It’s like a burning sun. Get me away from it!”
She laughed again.
“Maybe what we need to do is create anti-content,” I said. “Content that destroys other content.”
“I could see that,” said Jane, smiling. 
She and I had been friends for a little over two years. Like me, Jane had a BA in something art-related, though didn’t see the point of pursuing her studies to get her MA or MFA, which would require taking out student loans and going deeper into debt. She lived in the Mile-End, where she shared a studio with her boyfriend, who was a musician, and her dog, a thirteen-year-old Golden Retriever named Dora. Jane didn’t have a full-time job, or maybe not having a job was her full-time job. She sometimes babysat for wealthy families living in Westmount, which paid her in cash, and volunteered at a yoga studio one day per week. She had also recently begun receiving social assistance from the government. For her application to go through, she had had to sit in a waiting room lit like a funeral home, wait for several hours, then cry in front of government employees on three separate occasions.
What I admired the most about Jane was her spontaneity, positive energy and desire to be alive. Artist often turned out to be power hungry and insecure and conservative and sort of bovine overall, but Jane wasn’t like that. Her art practice seemed, to me, less like a celebration of her own ego, and more like a manifestation of a genuine desire to connect with others. Her work was primarily centered around videos, live performances and installations that tackled themes like technology, the natural world, reality and the human body. When I compared Jane’s art to mine, I sometimes felt like we were asking completely different questions, but searching for the same answers.
 “Last night, I had this amazing experience with the boy I babysit,” said Jane. “Jacob is 3 years old, so everything is amazing to him. Yesterday, he pointed at the sky and said, ‘Look!’ and I was like, ‘You want to look at the moon? Hell yeah, we can look at the moon.’ And I am not gonna lie, it was amazing. I don’t think I’ll ever make anything that’s even half as cool as the moon.”
“Instead of the projection tonight, maybe we should all just go outside and look at the moon together,” I said.
“That’s a good idea,” said Jane. “We can do that at my art night. By the way, you don’t have any new material we could show that I don’t know about, do you?”
“Not really,” I said. “I’ve been going insane trying to create something new that I like, but for some reason, nothing’s working. I think I want to make something that’s ‘better’ than what I’ve done before, except I have no idea what I mean by ‘better.’”
“Don’t think of it as better or worse, just go with what feels right,” said Jane. “Go with what you know.”
	“That’s the problem, I feel like I don’t know anything other than my problems,” I said. “I am a respected scholar in the field of my problems.”
“Maybe you should smoke a bunch of weed,” said Jane. “Weed always gives me clarity. Though sometimes clarity just tells me to get more weed.”
	“That’s funny,” I said, laughing.
“I should write that down,” said Jane. “I’ve been noting down my thoughts lately.”
Jane took out her phone and selected a note-taking application. A page filled with basic, sometimes nonsensical sentences appeared on screen. “Horror movie about killer ladybugs,” read one sentence.
“These notes are such a mess,” said Jane. “Look, it starts as different thoughts, then there’s a phone number, and after that it turns it into a recipe.”
	“What does this part say?” I said, laughing.
	“This part also turns into a recipe,” said Jane, laughing with me.
About ten minutes passed. An event organizer announced that the projection would start, then read a brief introduction, using terms like “hypercontemporary” and “decontextualized online imagery” to describe the work being showcased. Everyone in the room applauded. “Hypercontemporary decontextualized online imagery” was what this crowd wanted.
A GIF appeared on screen featuring a crude-looking, macho warrior rendered in 3D running in front of a psychedelic background. Most people in the room laughed or chuckled. Though the visual style was somewhat reminiscent of early 3D video games, the GIF looked more like the product of a rendering test gone wrong, a sort of happy accident. Post-internet art often employed a nostalgia-as-novelty approach, the result of a generation whose definition of art included Newgrounds.com, Microsoft Word clip art and Goldeneye 007 for Nintendo 64.
As the projection went on, I began to feel like the GIFs weren’t having any effect on me. It was like I was oversaturated, as if my brain was suffering from a kind of eating disorder that prevented it from being able to ingest art. “I’ve seen too much,” I thought, mentally picturing a grizzled war veteran returning home from the frontlines, unable to readjust to civilian life. 

